= warden_oauth

warden_oauth enhances the Warden authentication framework, offering a simple interface for creating 
oauth strategies.

== Getting Started

To get started you just have to require the warden_oauth libraries, and setup the 
oauth services you would like to have on the <tt>Warden::Manager</tt> middleware declaration:

  Warden::Manager do |config|
    config.failure_app = FailureApp
    config.oauth(:twitter) do |twitter|
      twitter.consumer_secret = <YOUR CONSUMER SECRET>
      twitter.consumer_key  = <YOUR CONSUMER KEY>
      twitter.options :site => 'http://twitter.com'
    end
    config.default_strategies(:twitter_oauth, :password, :other)
  end

== Giving an Access Token fetcher

Users get identified on a system via an access_token and an access_secret, when a valid access_token is 
recevied, warden_oauth calls a fetcher declared on <tt>Warden::OAuth.access_token_user_finder(:<strategy_key>)</tt>. 

  Warden::OAuth.access_token_user_finder(:twitter) do |access_token|
    User.find_by_access_token_and_access_secret(access_token.token, access_token.secret)
  end

If a user is returned, then this is the user that is going to be authenticated in the session, otherwise the 
<tt>FailureApp</tt> will be called, you may check the <tt>env['warden.options'][:oauth][:access_token]</tt> to check
the original access_token and <bold>create a new user</bold> from there if desired. 

== Strategy Class info

When you declare an oauth strategy on the <tt>Warden::Config</tt> initialization, (e.g. config.oauth(:service_name))
a <tt>Warden::OAuth::Strategy::ServiceName</tt> will be declared, at the same time this class will be registered as
<tt>:service_name_oauth</tt> on the <tt>Warden::Strategies</tt>.

So when we have a declaration like the one we have in the Getting Started section, we will have an Strategy class 
called <tt>Warden::OAuth::Strategy::Twitter</tt>, and this will be registered as <tt>:twitter_oauth</tt> on the Warden::Strategies.

== Running the Strategy

In order to get the strategy running in the app, you have to specify a parameter called warden_oauth_provider
with the name of the oauth service you want to use. So for example, if you would like to boot the twitter
oauth example given on the "Getting Started" section you just have to specify the parameter on a protected
url.

In Rails:
  
  link_to 'Twitter Authentication', url_for(login_path(:warden_oauth_provider => 'twitter'))

There can be 3 different outcomes from this strategy:

1. The OAuth credentials are invalid and the FailureApp is called.
2. The OAuth credentials are valid, but there is no user associated to them. In this case the FailureApp is called, but the env['warden.options'][:oauth][:access_token] will be available.
3. The OAuth credentials are valid, and the user is authenticated successfuly. 

Note:

In Rails, don't set the <tt>:warden_oauth_provider</tt> parameter as part of the login route, if you do this, rails will catch the parameter, but not the
warden rack middleware, ergo, it won't work as expected.

== Examples

If you want to know how to make a twitter authentication client, check examples/twitter/application.rb

== Note on Patches/Pull Requests

For any error send an email to: romanandreg [at] gmail [dot] com

== Copyright

Copyright (c) 2009 Roman Gonzalez. See LICENSE for details.
